Finished with simulating sequences and quality checks
Now.. onto USER treatment and methylation analysis

Will need various tools: start by installing epiPALEOmix and DamMet

## Install epiPALEOMIX

`conda create -n epipaleomix-env`

`conda install -n epipaleomix-env -c bioconda epipaleomix`

(I am assuming most everything is available through bioconda, let's see if I'm right)
Package not found (oops)

Epipaleomix notes: 
	- requires a BAM file for input (need to convert my SAM file to BAM, use samtools probably)
	- program requires pysam v0.8+ and R v2.15+

Installing dependencies: 
`conda install -n epipaleomix-env pysam=0.8`

`conda install -n epipaleomix-env R`

oops, installed R 4.3.1...not the one I need
Tried: 

`conda install -n epipaleomix-env R=2.15`

Did not work - package not available (maybe it will still work???)
Oldest version of R available from conda-forge channel is 3.3.2

Try installing R 3.3.2 and see if that works (not working currently, installed using git clone but running -h flag gives a syntax error)

Remove version 4.3.1 by running: 
`conda remove r-base=4.3.1`

Still getting the same error using R v3.3.2

Email professors and ask for help
Pause on this and try installing DamMet

## Install DamMet
- first check my favourite channel, bioconda

`conda create -n dammet-env`
`conda activate dammet-env`
`conda install -n dammet-env -c bioconda dammet`

YES! It is on bioconda!
Installed, call using "DamMet" (caps important)

Printout with call "DamMet":

DamMet (1.0.1) is a software aimed to estimate methylation maps using HTS sequencing data underlying ancient samples. The implemented model follows a two-steps procedure. The first step obtains a Maximum Likelihood Estimate (MLE) of position-specific deamination rates at both methylated and unmethylated cytosine residues. The second step makes use of these estimates to recover a MLE of local methylation levels in a user-defined window size.
Three args are required:
        ->-b (bam)
        ->-r (reference fasta)
        ->-c (chromosome of interest)
OPTIONS:
        -> BED file (-B):
        -> minmapQ (-q):
        -> minbaseQ (-Q):
        -> MinReadLength (-L):
        -> MinReadLength_Deamrates (-l):
        -> Max_Pos_From_End (-P):
        -> Expected fraction of methylated CpGs (-M):
        -> Outbase (-O):
        -> readFlags (-F):
        -> Number of cycles (-C) (Only used if no RG file is NOT provided):
        -> Using Precalc deamination rates from (-D):
        -> Using readgroups from file (-R):
        -> Exclude sites (1-based) (-E):
        -> Exclude BED (-e):
        -> WindowSize (-W):
        -> Max CpGs per Window (-N):

I kind of want all the chromosomes at once...I guess start with chromosome 1 and I can always write a loop to run it for all chromosomes iteratively

# Using DamMet

Need to first convert my SAM file to a BAM file for input to DamMet

Samtools has a  quick-check option to check if files are intact - run this quickly on sim_aln.sam

`samtools quick-check sim_aln.sam`

Results: nothing? no files written and no output....

Converted to BAM file using: 
` samtools view -b -h sim_aln.sam > sim_aln.bam`

Tried running:
`DamMet -b sim_aln.bam -r reference -c 1
Must specify either -N (max CpGs per window) AND/OR -W (max windowsize) OR -B bedfile
EXITING....

What do all these options actually do?
The chromosome option isn't just a "give us the chromosome number", it's: 
- a comma separated list of chromosomes/contigs (-c) or path to file with chromosomes/contigs (-cf).
Hmm...how would I find or make this? Is a comma-separated list of chromosomes just literally: 

chr1, chr2, chr3...

Surely not??

Also from the Github page: 

DamMet requires a single positional argument (estDEAM or estF). estDEAM will estimate deamination profiles and estF estimates methylation levels.

Try adding windowsize? 

`DamMet estF -b sim_aln.sam -r reference -c 1 -W 20`

Got this error: 
