Tasks still to do for this project
- [ ] Run epiPaleomix (need to figure out one of the input files)
- [ ] Run DamMet (need to figure out the -chrom file)
- [ ] Troubleshoot bioinformatic USER treatment
	- [ ] Need to use bwa aln instead of bwa mem?

## Troubleshooting epiPaleomix

The story so far...
- installed dependencies (including older version of R)
- installed epipaleomix
- generated makefile template
- filled in paths to correct files in the makefile
- makefile did not work
- downloaded dry run files
- ran dry run successfully

...need to find out what's going on. Likely something in the makefile itself. Possibly accidentally threw off the YAML code somehow?

Is there a YAML code checker that will tell me if my file is off?

Try yamllint.com - paste in code 
Great, this just gives me 20 lines of errors. Not helpful. 

## Troubleshooting DamMet

Need to figure out the chrom file for DamMet. 
- from Github: "a comma separated list of chromosomes/contigs"
- from DamMet menu in command line "chromosomeo of interest"
- from article (2019): "because DamMet analyzes each chromosome individually, it can easily be parallelized per chromosome to speed up the computation time"

What should this file look like? Some kind of index of the genome? Just a little table with chromosome names and coordinates?

Tried to run: 
`DamMet estDeam -b sim_aln.bam -r reference -c 1`

Error: "Must specify either -N (max CpGs per window), and/or -W (max window size), or -b (bedfile)"

Tried with specifying window size of 30

`DamMet estDeam -b sim_aln.bam -r reference -c 1 -W 30`
- error: could not retrieve index for sim_aln.bam

indexed sim_aln.bam using samtools
`samtools sort --write-index -o sim_aln_sorted.bam sim_aln.bam`

Tried again: 
`DamMet estDeam -b sim_aln.bam -r reference -c 1 -W 30`
- error: reference 1 not found in FASTA file, returning empty sequence




