## Running epipaleomix

- activate conda env using `conda activate epipaleomix-env`
- test out if its working using `epiPALEOMIX --help` - yes!
- reading documentation for program - need a makefile containing paths to all the necessary inputs

### Making a makefile

Can we make the makefile first and then fill in the necessary information? Or do I need to write the YAML file from scratch?

Try doing `epiPALEOMIX makefile simple > simulated_seqs.yaml`
Yes! This made a file with the format all correct, now I just need to change the filenames and paths. 

What are the paths to include: 
BAM file: 2/scratch/natassja/Bio722/term_project/gargammel/alignment/ref_db/sim_aln.bam
FASTA reference file: 2/scratch/natassja/Bio722/term_project/gargammel/alignment/ref_db/GRCh38.p14.genome.fa 
BED file: 

Also changed the option MethylMap Enabled: to True.

BEDfile:...I have a FASTA file with the CpG loci plus/minus 200 bp upstream and downstream but I don't have a BED file with their coordinates. How can I get that? Bedtools? Bwa?

Need to map first using bwa, then use bamtobed functionality in bedtools on the resulting bam file

Take sequence file and map using bwa aln to human reference genome

Hey I actually already have a BAM file where the sequences were mapped to the human genome using bwa aln! Can I turn this BAM file into a Bed file???

Bedtools has the functionality bamtobed which I can use to get a bedfile from my existing bam file

Usage: 
`bedtools bamtobed [OPTIONS] -i file.bam`

What are the options and do I need any of them?
By default it converts to a 6-column bed file, is that what I need or do I need something different

The inputs to epiPaleomix are not all the sequence data, the bedfile is the regions of interest, NOT the sequences (that's provided by the bamfile)

BAM file - sequence data
BED file - regions of interest

Bedtools is not on info2020

`conda create -n bedtools-env`
`conda install -n bedtools-env -c bioconda bedtools`

Installed bedtools 2.31.1

`bedtools bamtobed -i sequences_aln.bam > CpGs_all.bed`

now have CpGs_all.bed for input into epiPaleomix

need to edit YAML file with new location
/home/natassja/sequences/CpGs_all.bed

but first...rename file to cpgs_all.bed to avoid tedious capitalization
`mv CpGs-all.bed cpgs_all.bed`



