- downloaded R v.2.15.3 from CRAN to /home/natassja/miniconda3/envs/epipaleomix-env/bin/ using wget
- ran: 

`gunzip R-2.15.3`
`tar -xvf R-2.15.3`
`cd R-2.15.3`
`./configure`
`make`

to build the R code into (hopefully) the epipaleomix conda env that was already created

Now we need to install epiPALEOMIX into this env as well

Created a folder in /home/natassja/programs called epipaleomix

Ran: 
`git clone https://khanghoj@bitbucket.org/khanghoj/epiPALEOMIX.git`

Created symbolic link in /home/natassja/miniconda3/envs/epipaleomix/bin/ :
`ln -s /home/natassja/programs/install/epiPALEOMIX/run.py epiPALEOMIX`

Still getting error: 

(epipaleomix-env) [natassja@info2020 bin]$ epiPALEOMIX
  File "./epiPALEOMIX", line 281
    except RuntimeError, error:
                       ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax

It seems like it's indicating that the python file run.py has an error at line 281, there is a comma where there shouldn't be a comma - surely this must be some other kind of issue. 

Some internet searching seems to indicate that it might be a language issue - the system isn't reading the file the way it should be using the language it should be. Could be because run.py is in my regular files instead of being installed right into the conda env. Let's try and git clone it into /home/natassja/miniconda3/envs/epipaleomix-env (and delete the other version)

Installed epiPALEOMIX using git clone directly into /home/natassja/miniconda3/epipaleomix-env/bin/

Same error! 
I still have a feeling that something is going wrong with the way I'm trying to install things, and I also have a feeling I need to know more about how conda envs work because when I can't install things with conda-forge or bioconda I run into trouble. 

Checks: 
- run.py is readable, writable, executable
- `python --version` gives 3.5.4
	- Hey! this should be python 2.7.3 - maybe this is the issue

Run `conda install python=2.7.3`
Solving environment failed?
- because there is already a version of python installed?

Possibly because conda-forge has python 2.7.12 - 2.7.15 but not 2.7.3 - try 
`conda install -n epipaleomix-env -c conda-forge python=2.7`

It worked! 

Try again: `epiPALEOMIX --help`
Installed and working!!!


